INFO: used test-sets: 
"LDV-tests.set" for all files, "LDV-tests_rule.set" for all rule*-files


INSTANCE                       	CPAchecker     	Blast          	right?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1_3_BUG.cil.c                  	UNSAFE         	SAFE           	<--
alt_test_BUG.cil.c             	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	x
callfpointer_BUG.cil.c         	SAFE           	SAFE           	none
ex3_forlist.cil.c              	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	none
fo_test_BUG.cil.c              	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	x
nested_structure.cil.c         	SAFE           	               	<--
nested_structure_noptr.cil.c   	SAFE           	               	<--
nested_structure_ptr.cil.c     	SAFE           	               	<--
oomInt-1.cil.c                 	SAFE           	SAFE           	x
oomInt-2.cil.c                 	SAFE           	               	<--
palias.cil.c                   	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	none
rule57_ebda_blast-1.cil.c      	SAFE           	SAFE           	x
rule57_ebda_blast-2_BUG.cil.c  	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	x
rule60_list.cil.c              	UNSAFE         	SAFE           	----->
rule60_list2-1_BUG.cil.c       	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	x
rule60_list2-2.cil.c           	SAFE           	SAFE           	x
sizeofparameters_test_BUG.cil.c	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	x
structure_assignment.cil.c     	UNSAFE         	               	none
test_address.cil.c             	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	none
test_fieldaddr.cil.c           	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	none
test_kzalloc-1.cil.c           	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	none
test_kzalloc-2_BUG.cil.c       	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	x
test_malloc-1.cil.c            	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	none
test_malloc-2.cil.c            	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	none
test_malloc_warn_BUG.cil.c     	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	x
test_overflow_BUG.cil.c        	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	x
test_union-1.cil.c             	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	none
test_union-2.cil.c             	SAFE           	SAFE           	x
test_union_cast-1.cil.c        	SAFE           	SAFE           	x
test_union_cast-2.cil.c        	SAFE           	               	<--
test_while_int-1_BUG.cil.c     	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	x
test_while_int-2_BUG.cil.c     	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	x
volatile_alias.cil.c           	UNSAFE         	UNSAFE         	none
