doc/Developing.md, before:

CPAchecker Developing Instructions
==================================

More details can be found in the other files in this directory.

Please read and follow [`StyleGuide.md`](StyleGuide.md),
as well as [`Logging.md`](Logging.md), [`Test.md`](Test.md), and [`VersionControl.md`](VersionControl.md).

Getting the code
----------------

There are four possibilities to retrieve the source code:

- The main [SVN repository](https://svn.sosy-lab.org/software/cpachecker)

- Our [Git mirror](https://svn.sosy-lab.org/software/cpachecker.git)

- A Git mirror at [GitHub](https://github.com/dbeyer/cpachecker)

Only our `SVN` repository allows committing,
all mirrors are read-only.
We recommend to use our own repository hosting,
because it avoids the risk that the synchronization to a third party
fails or causes problems.

For browsing through the code online,
there are these possibilities:

- https://svn.sosy-lab.org/trac/cpachecker/browser/CPAchecker
  (with an SVN account)
- https://github.com/dbeyer/cpachecker/tree/trunk/

For bug tracking, we use our [Trac](https://svn.sosy-lab.org/trac/cpachecker/).

For building the code on the command line, c.f. [`../INSTALL.md`](../INSTALL.md).


If you like to use Git, use the following commands
to create a working copy that allows you to transparently
commit to the SVN repository (with `git svn dcommit`)
while still using Git to fetch the commits:

```
git clone -n -o mirror https://svn.sosy-lab.org/git/software/cpachecker.git/
cd cpachecker
git svn init --prefix=mirror/ -s https://svn.sosy-lab.org/software/cpachecker
git checkout -t mirror/trunk
```

This also works with GitHub.


Develop CPAchecker from within Eclipse
--------------------------------------

0. Install a Java 8 compatible JDK (c.f. [`../INSTALL.md`](../INSTALL.md)).

1. Install [Eclipse](http://www.eclipse.org/) with at least version 4.4, with JDT.

2. Install an SVN plugin for Eclipse, e.g. [SubClipse](http://subclipse.tigris.org).
   Create new project from [SVN repository](https://svn.sosy-lab.org/software/cpachecker/trunk)
   (or use GIT as described above).

3. Copy the file `.factorypath.template` to `.factorypath`,
   and (if necessary) adjust the path to the CPAchecker directory within it.

4. If Eclipse complains about a missing JDK
   (`Unbound classpath container: 'JRE System Library [JavaSE-1.8]'`),
   go to Window -> Preferences -> Java -> Installed JREs,
   click the "Search" button and select the path where your Java 8 installation
   can be found (on Ubuntu `/usr/lib/jvm` will do).

5. Ignore warnings `Unsatisfied version constraint: 'org.eclipse.cdt.core ...'`
   and `Bundle 'org.eclipse.cdt.core' cannot be resolved'`.

6. In order to run CPAchecker, use one of the supplied launch configurations
   or create your own.
   To select the configuration, specification, and program files use the
   text box "program arguments" in the launch configuration editor.
   Step 8 of the section "Running CPAchecker" above describes what can be entered here.
   The text box "VM arguments" should contain "-ea" to enable assertion checking.

7. Recommended:
   If you want the sources of the libraries (like Guava or CDT),
   run `ant install-contrib` once in the CPAchecker directory.


Inspecting CPAchecker Processes Started on the Command Line
-----------------------------------------------------------
There exist many tools that allow to monitor Java processes, e.g. VisualVM.
Most of these connect to the JVM via a special file in /tmp/hsperfdata_*.
CPAchecker disables this file by default for performance reasons
(cf. [http://www.evanjones.ca/jvm-mmap-pause.html](http://www.evanjones.ca/jvm-mmap-pause.html)),
so these tools won't see the CPAchecker process.
Just run CPAchecker with the environment variable
`JAVA_VM_ARGUMENTS=-XX:-PerfDisableSharedMem` set to enable this again.

For attaching a debugger to CPAchecker (even remotely),
just run `scripts/cpa.sh -debug ...` and point your debugger to TCP port 5005
of the respective machine.


Releasing a new Version
-----------------------

1. Preparations:
   Update [`NEWS.txt`](../NEWS.txt) with notes for all important changes since the last
   CPAchecker release (i.e., new analyses and features, important changes to
   configuration etc.),
   and ensure that [`Copyright.txt`](../Copyright.txt) and [`Authors.txt`](../Authors.txt) are up-to-date.

2. Define a new version by setting `version.base` in [`build.xml`](../build.xml) to the new value.

3. Build binary versions with `ant clean dist` and test them to ensure
   that all necessary files are contained in them.

4. Update homepage:
   - Add release archives to `/html` in the repository.
   - Put changelog of newest into `/html/NEWS-<version>.txt`.
   - Add links to `/html/download.php`.
   - Move the old download links to `/html/download-oldversions.php`.
   - Update section News on `/html/index.php`.

5. Add a tag in the repository with name `cpachecker-<version>`.

6. Send a mail with the release announcement to cpachecker-announce and
   cpachecker-users mailing lists.

7. Prepare for next development cycle by setting `version.base` in [`build.xml`](../build.xml)
   to a new development version (ending with `-svn`).

Commit message:

Update developer documentation
git-svn-id: https://svn.sosy-lab.org/software/cpachecker/trunk@23298 4712c6d2-40bb-43ae-aa4b-fec3f1bdfe4c

doc/Developing.md, after:

CPAchecker Developing Instructions
==================================

More details can be found in the other files in this directory.

Please read and follow at least [`StyleGuide.md`](StyleGuide.md),
[`Logging.md`](Logging.md), [`Test.md`](Test.md), and [`VersionControl.md`](VersionControl.md).


Getting the code
----------------

There are four possibilities to retrieve the source code:

- The main [SVN repository](https://svn.sosy-lab.org/software/cpachecker)

- Our [Git mirror](https://svn.sosy-lab.org/software/cpachecker.git)

- A Git mirror at [GitHub](https://github.com/sosy-lab/cpachecker)

Only our `SVN` repository allows committing,
all mirrors are read-only.
We recommend to use our own repository hosting,
because it avoids the risk that the synchronization to a third party
fails or causes problems.

For browsing through the code online,
there are these possibilities:

- https://svn.sosy-lab.org/trac/cpachecker/browser/CPAchecker
  (with an SVN account)
- https://github.com/sosy-lab/cpachecker/tree/trunk/

For bug tracking, we use our [Trac](https://svn.sosy-lab.org/trac/cpachecker/).

For building the code on the command line, c.f. [`../INSTALL.md`](../INSTALL.md).


If you like to use Git, use the following commands
to create a working copy that allows you to transparently
commit to the SVN repository (with `git svn dcommit`)
while still using Git to fetch the commits:

```
git clone -n -o mirror https://svn.sosy-lab.org/git/software/cpachecker.git/
cd cpachecker
git svn init --prefix=mirror/ -s https://svn.sosy-lab.org/software/cpachecker
git checkout -t mirror/trunk
```

This also works with GitHub.


Develop CPAchecker from within Eclipse
--------------------------------------

0. Install a Java 8 compatible JDK (c.f. [`../INSTALL.md`](../INSTALL.md)).

1. Install [Eclipse](http://www.eclipse.org/) with at least version 4.4, with JDT.

2. Install an SVN plugin for Eclipse, e.g. [SubClipse](http://subclipse.tigris.org).
   Create new project from [SVN repository](https://svn.sosy-lab.org/software/cpachecker/trunk)
   (or use GIT as described above).

3. Copy the file `.factorypath.template` to `.factorypath`,
   and (if necessary) adjust the path to the CPAchecker directory within it.

4. If Eclipse complains about a missing JDK
   (`Unbound classpath container: 'JRE System Library [JavaSE-1.8]'`),
   go to Window -> Preferences -> Java -> Installed JREs,
   click the "Search" button and select the path where your Java 8 installation
   can be found (on Ubuntu `/usr/lib/jvm` will do).

5. Ignore warnings `Unsatisfied version constraint: 'org.eclipse.cdt.core ...'`
   and `Bundle 'org.eclipse.cdt.core' cannot be resolved'`.

6. In order to run CPAchecker, use one of the supplied launch configurations
   or create your own.
   To select the configuration, specification, and program files use the
   text box "program arguments" in the launch configuration editor.
   The text box "VM arguments" should contain "-ea" to enable assertion checking.

7. Recommended:
   If you want the sources of the libraries (like Guava or CDT),
   run `ant install-contrib` once in the CPAchecker directory.


Code-Quality Checks and Continuous Integration
----------------------------------------------

We use javac, Google Error-Prone, the Eclipse Java Compiler, and FindBugs
for findings bugs in the source, and we keep CPAchecker
free of warnings from all these tools.
You can run them all at once (plus the unit tests) with `ant all-checks`.

Our [BuildBot](https://buildbot.sosy-lab.org/buildbot/waterfall)
will also execute these checks and send mails to the developer list
(cf. [`Mailing.md`](Mailing.md), please apply for membership if you commit to CPAchecker).

If any of these tools or the unit tests find a problem,
please fix them as soon as possible (ideally before committing).

The BuildBot also executes integration tests with thousands of CPAchecker runs
in various configurations on every commit and checks for regression.
All major projects and configurations within CPAchecker should be part of this test suite.
Please refer to [`Test.md`](Test.md) for more information.


Debugging
---------

For attaching a debugger to a CPAchecker process started on the command line (even remotely),
just run `scripts/cpa.sh -debug ...` and point your debugger to TCP port 5005
of the respective machine.


Releasing a new Version
-----------------------

1. Preparations:
   Update [`NEWS.txt`](../NEWS.txt) with notes for all important changes since the last
   CPAchecker release (i.e., new analyses and features, important changes to
   configuration etc.),
   and ensure that [`Copyright.txt`](../Copyright.txt) and [`Authors.txt`](../Authors.txt) are up-to-date.

2. Define a new version by setting `version.base` in [`build.xml`](../build.xml) to the new value.

3. Build binary versions with `ant clean dist` and test them to ensure
   that all necessary files are contained in them.

4. Update homepage:
   - Add release archives to `/html` in the repository.
   - Put changelog of newest into `/html/NEWS-<version>.txt`.
   - Add links to `/html/download.php`.
   - Move the old download links to `/html/download-oldversions.php`.
   - Update section News on `/html/index.php`.

5. Add a tag in the repository with name `cpachecker-<version>`.

6. Send a mail with the release announcement to cpachecker-announce and
   cpachecker-users mailing lists.

7. Prepare for next development cycle by setting `version.base` in [`build.xml`](../build.xml)
   to a new development version (ending with `-svn`).
