doc/Test.md, before:

Integration Tests
-----------------

Integration tests are available in the directory `test/test-sets`.
Please refer to [`README.md`](../README.md) in this directory for further information.

Unit Tests
----------

Run `ant tests` from the project root directory.
An HTML report with the results will be generated as `JUnit.html`.
Of course the unit tests can also be executed from within your IDE.

Structure of Tests
------------------

- The folder `test` in the main directory should be used to store (external) regression tests.
  (In old terminology, these would be called integration/system tests.)
  The regression testing script in that directory should execute all system and all unit tests.

- The actual code for the unit tests should go with the code,
  i.e., not in the `test` directory, but besides the code it tests.
  Code for unit tests is like real code.
  If there is a function `X`, then there can be a function `testX`.
  If it becomes too cluttered, do what you normally would do: refactor (have a file `XTest.java` for file `X.java`).
  If the directory becomes too cluttered, start a new directory.
  But I would start having the test code as close as possible to the code it tests.

- To run JUnit test cases automatically, the name of the class containing the test methods has to end with `Test`.
  No other classes should have such a name.

- Utilities specifically for tests should be placed in the package util.test,
  if they are reusable. Feel free to add utilities there.


Hints for Writing Tests
-----------------------

- Several classes have helpful instances for tests, for example:
  - TestLogManager for LogManager (with tests for correct logger usage)
  - TestDataTools.configurationForTest() for Configuration
  - FileLocation.DUMMY
  - CNumericTypes.* for CSimpleType instances
  - For other types, look in the specific class
  
There is no need to mock these types or create your own instances.
For `ShutdownNotifier`, simply use `ShutdownNotifier.createDummy()`.
Other utilities may be found in the package `util.test`.

- Inside tests, you can use the library [Truth](https://google.github.io/truth/) for writing assertions.
  Instead of writing `assertEquals(...)`, you can write `assertThat(...).is...`,
  and `Truth` offers you a wide range of methods for comparing the actual and the expected result
  (depending on the type of the result), which you can easily use with auto completion.
  The major benefit of this way of writing asserts is that you get more helpful failure messages
  that provide more information about the actual result, and that the test code is more readable.
- Examples for tests using `Truth` can be found in the class `AutomatonTest`.

- In particular, try to avoid `assertTrue()`/`assertFalse()` as well as Truths `assertThat(...).isTrue()`/`isFalse()`,
  because you will get unhelpful failure messages such as `expected result was 'true', but is 'false'`
  instead of for example `expected that string '...' contains '...'`.

- For tests that expect an exception to be thrown, it is often better to use the ExpectedException Rule of JUnit
  instead of writing `@Test(expected=...Exception.class)`.
  To do this, add
  ```
    @Rule
    public final ExpectedException thrown = ExpectedException.none();
  ```
  to your test class and write
  ```
    thrown.expect(...Exception.class);
  ```
  in the test method directly before the statement that should throw.
  This will ensure that it will be detected if a different statement in the test
  happens to throw the same exception although it should not.
  ExpectedException can also be used to check whether the thrown exception has a specific cause or message.

- Sometimes there are tests that make sense to be executed with different values of one or more parameters,
  for example if you have code that depends on the MachineModel and should work with any instance of MachineModel.
  This can be done without duplicating the test code by using JUnits test runner `Parameterized`.
  To use this, add `@RunWith(Parameterized.class)` to your test class,
  provide a public static method annotated with `@Parameters` that returns a `List<Object[]>`
  and add fields that are annotated with `@Parameter`.
  An example for this can be seen in the class `ExpressionValueVisitorTest`.

Commit message:

Update developer documentation
git-svn-id: https://svn.sosy-lab.org/software/cpachecker/trunk@23298 4712c6d2-40bb-43ae-aa4b-fec3f1bdfe4c

doc/Test.md, after:

Integration Tests
-----------------

Integration tests that are executed automatically by the [BuildBot](https://buildbot.sosy-lab.org/buildbot/waterfall)
are defined by the files `../test/test-sets/integration-*.xml`.
You can also execute these tests directly with BenchExec.
All major projects and configurations within CPAchecker should be part of this test suite.
To add tests for your project or configuration,
please contact the maintainers on the developer mailing list.

Unit Tests
----------

Run `ant tests` from the project root directory.
An HTML report with the results will be generated as `JUnit.html`.
Of course the unit tests can also be executed from within your IDE.

Structure of Tests
------------------

- The folder `test` in the main directory should be used to store (external) regression tests.
  (In old terminology, these would be called integration/system tests.)
  The regression testing script in that directory should execute all system and all unit tests.

- The actual code for the unit tests should go with the code,
  i.e., not in the `test` directory, but besides the code it tests.
  Code for unit tests is like real code.
  If there is a function `X`, then there can be a function `testX`.
  If it becomes too cluttered, do what you normally would do: refactor (have a file `XTest.java` for file `X.java`).
  If the directory becomes too cluttered, start a new directory.
  But I would start having the test code as close as possible to the code it tests.

- To run JUnit test cases automatically, the name of the class containing the test methods has to end with `Test`.
  No other classes should have such a name.

- Utilities specifically for tests should be placed in the package util.test,
  if they are reusable. Feel free to add utilities there.


Hints for Writing Tests
-----------------------

- Several classes have helpful instances for tests, for example:
  - TestLogManager for LogManager (with tests for correct logger usage)
  - TestDataTools.configurationForTest() for Configuration
  - FileLocation.DUMMY
  - CNumericTypes.* for CSimpleType instances
  - For other types, look in the specific class
  
There is no need to mock these types or create your own instances.
For `ShutdownNotifier`, simply use `ShutdownNotifier.createDummy()`.
Other utilities may be found in the package `util.test`.

- Inside tests, you can use the library [Truth](https://google.github.io/truth/) for writing assertions.
  Instead of writing `assertEquals(...)`, you can write `assertThat(...).is...`,
  and `Truth` offers you a wide range of methods for comparing the actual and the expected result
  (depending on the type of the result), which you can easily use with auto completion.
  The major benefit of this way of writing asserts is that you get more helpful failure messages
  that provide more information about the actual result, and that the test code is more readable.
- Examples for tests using `Truth` can be found in the class `AutomatonTest`.

- In particular, try to avoid `assertTrue()`/`assertFalse()` as well as Truths `assertThat(...).isTrue()`/`isFalse()`,
  because you will get unhelpful failure messages such as `expected result was 'true', but is 'false'`
  instead of for example `expected that string '...' contains '...'`.

- For tests that expect an exception to be thrown, it is often better to use the ExpectedException Rule of JUnit
  instead of writing `@Test(expected=...Exception.class)`.
  To do this, add
  ```
    @Rule
    public final ExpectedException thrown = ExpectedException.none();
  ```
  to your test class and write
  ```
    thrown.expect(...Exception.class);
  ```
  in the test method directly before the statement that should throw.
  This will ensure that it will be detected if a different statement in the test
  happens to throw the same exception although it should not.
  ExpectedException can also be used to check whether the thrown exception has a specific cause or message.

- Sometimes there are tests that make sense to be executed with different values of one or more parameters,
  for example if you have code that depends on the MachineModel and should work with any instance of MachineModel.
  This can be done without duplicating the test code by using JUnits test runner `Parameterized`.
  To use this, add `@RunWith(Parameterized.class)` to your test class,
  provide a public static method annotated with `@Parameters` that returns a `List<Object[]>`
  and add fields that are annotated with `@Parameter`.
  An example for this can be seen in the class `ExpressionValueVisitorTest`.
